---
layout: post
title: Origins of Ubiquity Robotics
---
I walked into my office at Tree Semiconductor one morning, and sat down and started working on the tedious drivel work that is managing. I remembered back to my days back in Cambridge when I was working on new and exciting projects, and solving problems that had never been solved before. Now I was sitting here, reduced to working on cost analysis and trying to squeeze every last dollar out of the cost of making our new chip. Sure I had the chance to occasionally solve a problem from a high level, but what I really wanted to do was heat up my soldering iron, and actually tackle a challenge.

As a way to satisfy my engineering craving, I decided to step away from my main field of semiconductors and get into robotics, as it seemed like an interesting opportunity. I shopped around, looking for a robot platform that I could start to play on. All of these platforms seemed either very expensive or just plain incapable, Almost all of the products under $500 were weak in both their structure and their computing power. Some in the higher price points had more compute, but still lacked a significant payloads. Only at obscenely high costs did I start to find platforms that suited my requirements.

Determined that I could I make a better platform at a lower cost, I bought an electric wheelchair and went to the Hacker Dojo, my local makerspace hoping that maybe someone would be able to help me on my quest to build a better robot platform. That day about 2 people showed interest in helping with the project, similar outcomes for the next few weeks. We were able to get a basic system that could barely move around, but I felt like we needed more people with more technical knowledge to get this off the ground. Someone suggested that I post this as a robotics meetup and sure enough we got a ton of people, including core team members like Kurt, Rohan, and Alan.

In that meetup I pitched the idea of making a highly capable robot platform for a cost to manufacture low enough that it could be sold for $1000. To gauge the capability of the robot I made a list of 12 challenges that got progressively harder. Some said that it was impossible, others were surprised that it didn’t exist yet.